Reorganising exercise types (#363)
carpentries/lesson-development-training: episodes/formative-assessment.md

Any instructional tool that generates feedback and is used in a formative way to check for learners' understanding can be described as “formative assessment”. For example,

- **checking in** - gauging learners’ satisfaction and understanding using agreed signals (e.g. raising different coloured post-it/sticky notes or [Zoom reactions](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/zoom-mechanics/#reactions) to indicate that the pace is too fast/slow, that they completed/have not completed an exercise).
- **group or collaborative discussions** - raising questions for discussion among the group. For example, **think, pair, share**, where learners _think_ individually about an answer to a question, _pair_ up with a classmate to discuss their answer, and then _share_ out the consensus they came to
with the class.
- **problem-solving or diagnostic exercises** - setting challenges for learners to tackle, testing comprehension of a subject and diagnosing any forming misconceptions.

> - **reflections** at the end of a session to help process what was learned, for example asking learners to write down, draw, or diagram (concept map) things they learned, noting things they want to know more about and any questions they still have.

Author: ```suggestion
- **reflections** at the end of a session to help process what was learned, for example asking learners to write down, draw, or diagram (concept map) things they learned, noting how things relate to one another or connect with previous knowledge, things they want to know more about and any questions they still have.
```

## Assessments

> In order to measure progress and evaluate if and what learning occurred - we have various types of assessments available to us:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to measure progress and evaluate if and what learning occurred, we have various types of assessment available to us:
```

- **summative assessments** - used to verify whether learners achieved
the stated learning objectives *after* instruction.

>  - **formative assessments** - used to detect changes in learner understaning or performance *during*
> instruction, to provide feedback and insight (to both instructors and learners) into the learners' developing mental models of the topic taught and to identify any old or developing misconceptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **formative assessments** - used to detect changes in learner understanding or performance *during*
instruction, to provide feedback and insight (to both instructors and learners) into the learners' developing mental models of the topic taught and to identify any old or developing misconceptions.
```

Any instructional tool that generates feedback and is used in a formative way to check for learners' understanding can be described as “formative assessment”. For example,

- **checking in** - gauging learners’ satisfaction and understanding using agreed signals (e.g. raising different coloured post-it/sticky notes or [Zoom reactions](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/zoom-mechanics/#reactions) to indicate that the pace is too fast/slow, that they completed/have not completed an exercise).
- **group or collaborative discussions** - raising questions for discussion among the group. For example, **think, pair, share**, where learners _think_ individually about an answer to a question, _pair_ up with a classmate to discuss their answer, and then _share_ out the consensus they came to
with the class.
- **problem-solving or diagnostic exercises** - setting challenges for learners to tackle, testing comprehension of a subject and diagnosing any forming misconceptions.

> - **concept maps and diagrams** - asking learners to reflect by drawing/labeling a concept map/diagram or writing down a list of new concepts and skills they’ve learned and (optionally) how they relate to one another or connect with previous knowledge.
> - **reflections** at the end of a session to help process what was learned - e.g. asking learners to write down things they learned, things they want to know more about and any questions they still have or using a specific worksheet or journal for learners to summarise their thoughts about what they learned.

Author: ```suggestion
- **reflections** at the end of a session to help process what was learned, for example:
    - asking learners to write down things they learned, things they want to know more about and any questions they still have or using a specific worksheet or journal for learners to summarise their thoughts about what they learned, or
    - asking learners to reflect by drawing or labelling a concept map or a diagram or writing down a list of new concepts and skills they’ve learned and (optionally) how they relate to one another or connect with previous knowledge.
```

Any instructional tool that generates feedback and is used in a formative way to check for learners' understanding can be described as “formative assessment”. For example,

- **checking in** - gauging learners’ satisfaction and understanding using agreed signals (e.g. raising different coloured post-it/sticky notes or [Zoom reactions](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/zoom-mechanics/#reactions) to indicate that the pace is too fast/slow, that they completed/have not completed an exercise).
- **group or collaborative discussions** - raising questions for discussion among the group. For example, **think, pair, share**, where learners _think_ individually about an answer to a question, _pair_ up with a classmate to discuss their answer, and then _share_ out the consensus they came to
with the class.
- **problem-solving or diagnostic exercises** - setting challenges for learners to tackle, testing comprehension of a subject and diagnosing any forming misconceptions.

> - **reflections** at the end of a session to help process what was learned, for example:
>     - asking learners to write down things they learned, things they want to know more about and any questions they still have or using a specific worksheet or journal for learners to summarise their thoughts about what they learned, or
>     - asking learners to reflect by drawing or labelling a concept map or a diagram or writing down a list of new concepts and skills they’ve learned and (optionally) how they relate to one another or connect with previous knowledge.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure this needs 2 bullet points, which makes it longer than the others.  Could we maybe combine write, draw, or diagram into one shorter sentence?  It could cut out the specifics about worksheets/journals/concept maps etc though.
```suggestion
- **reflections** at the end of a session to help process what was learned, for example asking learners to write down, draw, or diagram (concept map) things they learned, noting things they want to know more about and any questions they still have.
```

Author: Agreed - 2 bullet points not needed.
